[faqs] Can use full_package_mode over my dependencies (#16018)
conan-io/conan-center-index: docs/faqs.md

and would otherwise dynamically embed this into the CMake config files or generated pkg-config files then it should be allowed.

Doing so requires [deleting the option from the `package_id`](adding_packages/conanfile_attributes.md#removing-from-package_id).

## Can I use full_package_mode for a requirement in my recipe?

> For some unusual projects, they need to be aligned and being used as requirement, using the very same version, options and settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some usual projects, they need to be aligned and being used as requirement, using the very same version, options and settings.
```

Those projects usually break between patch versions and are very sentsitive, so we can not use different versions throught Conan graph dependencies,
otherwise, it may result on unexpected behavior, or even runtime errors.

A very kwnon project is [glib](https://conan.io/center/glib), which requires the very same configuration to prevent multiple instances when using static link. As solution, we could consume glib on full package id mode, like:

```python
def package_id(self):
    self.info.requires["glib"].full_package_mode()
```

> Perfect solution on consumer side, but there is a painful side-effect: CCI will not re-generate all involved packages for any change in the dependencies graph which glib is associated, which means, users will start to see **MISSING_PACKAGES** error during their pull requests.

Reviewer 2: I am concerned the affect 2.0 will have since this is what the embedded mode will do by default

Author: A sheperds topic then

Reviewer: I suppose in v2 embed mode should be always active, for C++ and C projects.
as there could be some inline functions in headers, or just macro definitions like:
```
#define SUM(A, B) ((A) + (B))
```
the code from the header is always embedded into the consumer (regardless if it's shared or static library), therefore, if that header changes, all the consumers have to be rebuilt. otherwise, an incompatibility might be encountered (different components use different versions of macro, and such a macro, may define something important for API, like a structure alignment computation).

Reviewer 2: It's the new default depending on package type :)

Reviewer: it should be regardless of `package_type`. perhaps, the only exception is header-only depending on header-only.

> Perfect solution on consumer side, but there is a painful side-effect: CCI will not re-generate all involved packages for any change in the dependencies graph which glib is associated, which means, users will start to see **MISSING_PACKAGES** error during their pull requests.

Reviewer: that's something to explore for a future, as with embed mode in v2 problem will appear way more often.
possible solution:
- a new tapaholes-like background job to re-generate downstream graph
- allow `--build missing` or `--build xxx` or similar in certain PRs
- allow to build non-standard configurations (e.g. via special keywords in PR title or first message), like overriding default options, versions of dependencies and so on
- expose an interface to build missing (or non-standard) packages on demand (via GH comment, or dedicated web-page)

> As workaround, it would be necessary updating all recipes involved, by opening new PRs, then it should generate new packages, but it takes many days and still is a fragile process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As workaround, it would be necessary updating all recipes involved, by opening new PRs, then it should generate new packages, but it takes many days and still is a fragile process.
```
it's not a workaround, it's just a necessarily trade-off of `full_package_mode`. you use it and accept consequences, or you don't use it.

To have more context about it, please, visit the issues #11684 and #11022

> In summary, we do not recommend `full_package_mode` usage on CCI. Instead, prefer using `shared=True` by default, when is really needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, we do recommend `full_package_mode` usage on CCI. Instead, prefer using `shared=True` by default, when is really needed.
```
it should be recommended to use, as it's an official documented method

and would otherwise dynamically embed this into the CMake config files or generated pkg-config files then it should be allowed.

Doing so requires [deleting the option from the `package_id`](adding_packages/conanfile_attributes.md#removing-from-package_id).

## Can I use full_package_mode for a requirement in my recipe?

> For some not regular projects, they may need to be aligned when being used as a requirement, using the very same version, options, and settings and maybe not mixing shared with static linkage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some regular projects, they may need to be aligned when being used as a requirement, using the very same version, options, and settings and maybe not mixing shared with static linkage.
```

Reviewer: I wouldn't say GLib is irregular

Author: It's irregular in terms of consumption. We don't have this problem with most of projects in CCI.

> For some not regular projects, they may need to be aligned when being used as a requirement, using the very same version, options, and settings and maybe not mixing shared with static linkage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some irregular projects, they may need to be aligned when being used as a requirement, using the very same version, options, and settings and maybe not mixing shared with static linkage.
```

Those projects usually break between patch versions and are very sensitive, so we can not use different versions through Conan graph dependencies,
otherwise, it may result in unexpected behavior or even runtime errors.

A very known project is GLib, which requires the very same configuration to prevent multiple instances when using static linkage.

> As a solution, we could consume glib on full package id mode, like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a solution, we could consume GLib on full package id mode, like:
```

```python
def package_id(self):
    self.info.requires["glib"].full_package_mode()
```

> Perfect solution on the consumer side, but there is a painful side-effect: CCI will not re-generate all involved packages for any change in the dependencies graph with which glib is associated, which means, users will start to see **MISSING_PACKAGES** error during their pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perfect solution on the consumer side, but there is a side-effect: CCI will not re-generate all involved packages for any change in the dependencies graph with which glib is associated, which means, users will start to see **MISSING_PACKAGES** error during their pull requests.
```

Reviewer: that's too personal and subjective characteristics, I would just operate on raw facts here and avoid emotional descriptions

As a trade-off, it would be necessary to update all recipes involved, by opening new PRs,
then it should generate new packages, but it takes many days and still is a process that is not supported by CCI internally.

To have more context about it, please, visit issues #11684 and #11022

> In summary, we do not recommend `full_package_mode` or any other custom package id mode for requirements on CCI, it will break other PRs soon or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, we recommend `full_package_mode` or any other custom package id mode for requirements on CCI, it will break other PRs soon or later.
```

Reviewer: it's fine to recommend if user accepts the consequences described above

Author: It's not fine. The recommendation is NOT using any package ID mode in CCI.

Reviewer: that's not ideal. we can explain pros and cons of each approach, and let people choose, recommending to use package ID mode if they are agree to accept these consequences of broken PR. it's like "okay, I've been warned, but I acknowledge and take all the risks as my responsibility".

Author: No because you are breaking all other users instead, including CCI CI with missing package, which is worst. The mention is clear about for requirements on CCI, if an user wants to use `full_transitive_mode` locally, fine, but on CCI it's not the idea.

> Instead, prefer using `shared=True` by default, when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may also try using `shared=True` by default, when needed.
```
